<strong>Living in One Home</strong><br>
"I lived near the house of Jabbar Abu Bashar, and at that time, we did not distinguish between religions or sects. The temptations of modern life were not available then. We used to play together and eat together, Muslims, Christians, and Sabaeans, without discrimination. We competed in climbing palm trees, played traditional games like marbles and football, and the purpose of the competition was very spontaneous. They were very involved in agriculture, and their children invited us into their homes to eat mulberries, grapes, and carrots. …“Their behaviour reflected sincerity, honesty, and chivalry. If they saw you in trouble, they would never leave you alone and would stand by your side, whether in your joys or sorrows. …"They had special celebrations like 'Banja,' during which, amazingly, it used to rain. This was considered a sign that it was their true celebration. …“When they hosted wedding celebrations, they would bring a Muslim cook, acknowledging our adherence to Islamic slaughter. If anything, this reflects their desire for the enduring warmth of friendship and social relations with us.” (Voices from Amara)

<strong>Living alongside the Mandaean community</strong><br>
The Sabians lived in the Sabian neighbourhood, not in our neighbourhood. We were in the western part of the city. The Sabian neighbourhood was the largest and oldest neighbourhood. It included Al-Husseinia and extended from Lutfa to the other side of the city. The Sabian neighbourhoods were large neighbourhoods with a lot of students and produced many scholars. All the neighbourhoods of Hurriya, such as Abdullah and others, were large Sabian neighbourhoods. I attended Tadaiya School in the Qalaat Saleh in 1948. It opened in 1925. In the first grade, our teacher was Syed Hamed Syed Khalaf and his brother Syed Hassan Sheikh Zain. There were many students in the school. The Sabians were very peaceful people. Currently, the Sabians have all left. Only a few remain, maybe two or three young people. All the rest have left and went to America, Germany and elsewhere.” (Voices from Amara)

<strong>The Mandaean houses</strong><br>
“The Mandaean houses were all built in a similar style – an iwan/reception room on the right
when you enter, no diwaniya, and rooms in a row beyond that where the family lived. The
mud brick houses are all gone now.” (Voices from Amara)

<strong>Brotherly Bond</strong><br>
"My relationship with them is not just a friendship, but they are my brothers. I would enter their homes just as I would enter my own siblings' homes. We communicate and support each other like brothers and one family. Just as I protect my home, I would protect theirs due to the strength of our relationship. …"Before 2003, I was in school, and one of my close Sabian friends was named Ihab. …One day, Ihab ran out of cold drinking water, so he asked me for some. I gave him my water bottle, and he wanted to pour from it into his own bottle, but I refused. I asked him to drink directly from my bottle because he was my friend, and I did not see any difference between us. My relationship with him was so close that before he emigrated from Iraq, he stayed at my house for two days, as if he was leaving a family member, not just a friend." (Voices from Maysan)